Hello Guys welcome to a new lesson.
Today it's time to talk about another valuable feature that we can add to our theme.
Let's talk about post formats.
Post formats are one of the futures that you can option only the at your film making it even more attractive
to the end user.
But in case you never heard about them I really like to explain everything in detail and visually.
So let's go over to our browser here in the blog de-listing page.
You can see that all the post entries appear in much the same way.
Actually we always have the same structure repeated several times.
Here we have a future e-mail for the post the title and the other elements that we defined in the loop.
By the way you certainly remember that this loop is coming from the file called index dot PH BE ALL
of the post entries look the same.
Precisely because we have only one loop structure which is repeated as many times as necessary.
But what if I want this listing to be different depending on the post content or on posts category.
For example let's suppose that for all posts in the web design category we wanted to show only a single
image.
I mean no text only one image as the post content.
And for the social media category we could have something different.
For example we could only show a video with some tutorial for example and we could go further.
Let's say that all having some of the Web Design category posts would have different color and style
and the same for items in the social media category.
The post formats are available from word breast's three point one and help us make the differentiation
that we want.
WordPress currently works with 9 post formats according to the Codex.
We can have the following post firmus can have a site which is similar to a Facebook note app.
They also have Gallerie post firmus link M.H. quote.
Status video audio and chat transcripts.
We also have the standard WordPress post formats that you understand better.
Later on this lesson for this lesson we're going to use three of this post formats the default one video
and image.
Knowing how to use these formats the others will come naturally to you.
OK so let's get started.
Let's open up our functions files again and let's add another support to the theme.
This time we are going to pass the string post hyphen formats to the function of k.
If you only do that and open any post for editing we'll see something that was not there before.
As open one of the posts here notice here on the right side we have a new metal box and it's quite strange
because it's too empty.
Surely you should have seen this on some other theme but not empty of course.
This metal box should be displaying in a couple of new options but it's not.
Those options are for you to define what kind of content you are currently creating.
For example if it's a video post or an image post or not your post etc..
If you want to display those options you have to pass some more arguments to the function we just created.
So let's go back to a file and pass arguments.
Fortunately this is very but very easy.
We just create an array within the function and type in which post formats we want to enable.
Notice that we are talking about the thing as a whole not just a specific post.
Let's say then that throughout the thing the following post formats will be allowed.
VDU M.H..
Let's say that let's go back to our editing area and reload the page.
Now we have three new options inside the master box.
Standard video and image.
This post FIRMAT called the Standard has a special meaning is the default option and means that no specific
post format is being indicated.
Well now we can start playing around with our posts.
I can go ahead and create a lot of new posts and for posts I'm going to choose a different post FIRMAT
I'm going to create six new posts here to post for each category and for each post format I'm going
to pause the video for a moment and when we come back I'm going to show you what I've done.
So we have this two new posts at the top.
Let's open the first one this post belongs to the social media category.
I defined that for this category of posts.
We'll have the video post format and only contain one video as a contact.
I just grabbed the link from any YouTube video and paste it here in the Post editor and I did the same
for the other post from the same category.
Now back to the post table as open a post from the web design category.
For the two posts in this category I did find that the post format will be MH and their content will
be just a single image.
The idea will be that post in the social media category would represent only a video tutorial and post
from the web design category would only show an image it could be for example a portfolio image but
that's just a hypothetical use case.
Just to illustrate the possibility of using POST Furman's in real life the user of the theme or the
site owner is the one who will define if he or she wants to use this feature and for what reason.
OK the other two remaining posts in the web development category.
You have a standard post FIRMAT they will not present anything different.
Notice that you can easily identify the post FIRMAT in the table that this little icons here next to
the title of each post.
OK but when we go back to her thing we see that nothing has changed yet.
The structure remains the same.
The only difference is that we have new posts with new content.
What we want to do is for posts in the social media category.
We want to remove this also link here.
We could also present the title in a different color not this color.
We have at the moment for the posts from the web design category we want to remove the publication date
and we could also present the title with a different style.
On the other hand both defined with a standard post format won't change at all.
To use the full potential of forced formats you gotta make some changes to our Leupp first the first
thing we're going to do is added that file we created in the previous lesson called Content got BHB.
It contains only inmates shemale article tag as you can see inside the article have a content that is
repeated every time you loop runs and the loop as you know is the one at the next page be filed.
So the school function here inside this article tag get post Furman's and we're going to call this function
out to see what is returning it will do nothing more than showing on screen the name of the post FIRMAT
related to the current post loop.
Let's say that and you see what I mean.
Notice that for the first two loops we have video
for the next two posts.
MH
and for standard post nothing is bring it out.
Good but what is this for.
Well for this to be useful.
We need to use the second parameter of the function we learned in the last lesson to get Steyne played
a part.
So let's just recap the first parameter of this function is the file path without the extension.
So here we have template parts for these flash content.
The second parameter can be used whenever we want to call a specialized part of the same plate.
Kind of confusing isn't it.
Yes and this is a rather complicated concept to explain but in practice it is very easy to understand.
Suppose we have in addition to the content that page file another file called content hif an image that
be with a different content.
How can we do to include that file using the second parameter of the getting paid part function.
Very easy with just typing the word image in the second parameter.
So pressed we will understand that we want to include a file called content hyphen image dot page.
For this to work the full file name must have a hyphen.
OK that's very important.
In a more detailed explanation what happens here is that WordPress will always include a file that has
and they Danti code name to the second parameter.
If it can't find this file it will fall back to the file that has the same name as the first parameter.
So in this example if a file called content hif an image that exists inside of its folder it will be
included.
If it doesn't work press will link to the file called content dot page.
OK.
But what does this have to do with post firmus.
And with that get forced from a function I explained earlier.
Well you see that in a moment let's first create two new files here in the template parts folder one
called content and image that BHP and another file called content.
I think video that HP inside the contd image that BHP file let's copy and paste everything they have
inside the content that BGP file
here we want to remove the publication they don't want to hear and for the content video that's fine.
Let's do the same and just remove the author's link.
OK.
Now going back to the index that BHP last passed the second parameter of the Get template part function
to include this new files in the loop to do this last pass to get those FIRMAT function as the second
parameter
as we already know get post FIRMAT returns a string with the name of the post Furman's.
So whenever there is a post that has the video pulse FIRMAT WordPress will try to include the file called
content hyphen video dot BHB whenever in the loop.
There is a post that has the image Bohr's FIRMAT the file to be included to be content hyphen image.
BHP.
And then whenever the function returns nothing that will be the case when we have a post that has the
standard Poor's FIRMAT the file to be included should be content that THP the second parameter will
be completely ignored.
So that's the magic ladies and gentlemen and I say that
and look at us for posts from the social media category which have the video post FIRMAT the content
video that page peafowl was included.
We can say that because these items don't display the author's link and this below posts from the web
design category.
They don't have the publication date which means the file I've included here is the content image that
BHB file.
Your other post didn't change at all because they were beautiful.
They called it APCP file which has the most complete loop of all.
Now that you know all of this you can start playing a little more.
You can for example modify the tags of which count and file by adding certain CSSA classes within those
tags and then styling them differently.
For example for all polls that have a video post FIRMAT we can say that all having elements will show
in red color and that's just the tip of the iceberg or we can do something even more advanced.
Look at these examples.
That's it for you guys.
We can't call the post class function inside the HTL mail article tag of all the content files we created
in this lesson.
Inspect these elements and see which classes will be included.
Think about what you can achieve with those classes using CSSA.
I am sure that many ideas will pop up from your mind.
Well that's all for this lesson.
I hope you have understood and also liked it.
If you have any question go ahead and use our questions and answers page.
So see your next lesson.